SSH Tunneling (#6586)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/ssh-tunneling/index.md

If you visit our local machine on IP address 10.0.0.4 on port 8888, our local machine will make a request on port 8888 which acts as a mini server. This port will smuggle data into a TCP packet through the publicly created tunnel, 44.11.22.33:22. When our public SSH server receives this, it acknowledges that our local machine wants to access resources at IP address 192.168.1.3 which it has access to. So it will forward the request internally because they are on the same network. So it will do the request, get the response, and then forward it back to our local machine.

And with that, we have accessed our remote resources.

In some instances let's say our remote IP address is forbidden from our local network, i.e, our ISP is blocking access to certain domains. In this case, we can tunnel it through our secure SSH and then make our public SSH server make a request on our behalf.

### Remote port forwarding

> Remote port forwarding is when we want other people to have access to our local resources. For instance, let's say we have a web server on our machines, and we want to send a URL for someone to test our application. What do we do? We still use our public SSH server as a centralized location and ask the public server to listen to a port and any traffic that goes through that port is then directed to us. That is, it will be forwarded to us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remote port forwarding is significant when we want other people to access our local resources. For instance, if we have a web server on our machines and there is a need to send a URL for testing our application to someone.

Remote port forwarding allows us to use our public SSH server as a centralized location and request the public server to listen to its ports. Through this, any traffic that goes through its ports is forwarded to our server.
```

<!--more-->
SSH tunneling allows us to access remote resources that we do not have access to because they are internal to that network. SSH tunneling is also used to allow others outside our network to have access to it. It is done through TCP tunneling.

To perform SSH tunneling, we will need to perform port forwarding to allow port 22. Port 22 is the SSH port on our router to be routed to our public SSH server.

To ensure the security of our network services, not all ports are directly accessible from outside the Enterprise Network Compute System (ENCS) network. If you are offsite and need to access a protected resource, you can use SSH to tunnel through an accessible resource to reach the protected resource.

In this article, we will look at two main subtopics in SSH tunneling, that is:
- Remote port forwarding
- Local port forwarding

### Table of contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Local port forwarding](#local-port-forwarding)
- [Remote port forwarding](#remote-port-forwarding)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: Isn't an understanding of networking required as a prerequisite? 
Add a link to any networking article/published content that is available which the reader should look at before proceeding with this article.

Our local machine on IP address `10.0.0.4` is on a completely different network and cannot access resources on the IP address `192.168.1.3`. What we need to do is create an SSH tunnel between our local machine and our public SSH server. This is because the IP Address `44.11.22.33` is a public IP address and port 22 is a public open SSH port.

Local port forwarding syntax:

```bash
ssh -L <local port>:<remote ip address>:<remote port> <public ssh server ip address>
```

Let us explain the above syntax:
- -L &rarr; - It is the local port forwarding.
- 8888 &rarr; - This is the local port.
- 192.168.1.3 &rarr; - This is a remote IP address.
- 8080 &rarr; - It is a remote port.
- 44.11.22.33 &rarr; - It is the public SSH server ip address.

The command below will be used to perform local port forwarding:

```bash
ssh -L 8888:192.168.1.3:8080 44.11.22.33
```

We are going to access our public SSH server using SSH. To do this, since our local machine is dumb and is not enough to access the remote resources, we will create a local port, that is, port 8888. 

> What happens is that the SSH server will start listening on port 8888 on our local machine. Any traffic that goes to port 8888 from our local machine is forwarded to the IP address `192.168.1.3` on port 8080 through the public SSH server. As a result, a TCP connection is established with our SSH server to our machine because it is open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happens is that the SSH server will listen on port 8888 from our local machine. Any traffic that goes to port 8888 from our local machine is forwarded to the IP address `192.168.1.3` on port 8080 through the public SSH server. As a result, a TCP connection is established with our SSH server to our machine because it is open.

If we visit our local machine on IP address `10.0.0.4` on port 8888, our local machine will make a request on port 8888 that acts as a mini server. This port will smuggle data into a TCP packet through the publicly created tunnel, `44.11.22.33:22`. 

When our public SSH server receives this, it acknowledges that our local machine wants to access resources at IP address `192.168.1.3` that it has access to. So it will forward the request internally because they are on the same network. The server will receive the request, get the response, and then forward it back to our local machine. With that, we have accessed our remote resources.

In some instances,  let's say our remote IP address is forbidden from our local network i.e, our ISP is blocking access to specific domains, we can tunnel it through our secure SSH and then make our public SSH server request on our behalf.

### Remote port forwarding

> Remote port forwarding is when we want other people to have access to our local resources. For instance, let's say we have a web server on our machines, and we want to send a URL for someone to test our application. What do we do? We still use our public SSH server as a centralized location and ask the public server to listen to a port.  Any traffic that goes through that port is then directed to us. That is, it will be forwarded to us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remote port forwarding is significant when we want other people to access our local resources. For instance, if we have a web server on our machines and there is a need to send a URL for testing our application to someone.

Remote port forwarding allows us to use our public SSH server as a centralized location and request the public server to listen to its ports. Through this, any traffic that goes through its ports is forwarded to our server.
```

Let us have a look at the image below:

![Remote port forwarding](/engineering-education/ssh-tunneling/remote.jpg)

From the image above, we have our:
- Internal resources on IP address `10.0.0.3` on port 8080 that we want people to have access to.
- Machine of IP address `10.0.0.4` on the same network as our internal resources as an SSH client.
- Public SSH server and a remote machine on the same network.

Let us have a look at the command below:

Remote port forwarding syntax:

```bash
ssh -R <remote port>:<local ip address>:<local port> <remote ip address>

> ```

Reviewer: Explain the syntax

```bash
ssh -R 8888:10.0.0.3:8080 44.11.22.33
```

The command above is executed on our local machine, that is, `10.0.0.4`. 8888 is our remote port. So, the public server that we are accessing will listen on port 8888. Gateway configurations needs to be enabled on our local machine to enable remote port forwarding.

The main idea here is that we need anything that goes to port 8888 to be forwarded to the local machine that we have on `10.0.0.3` on port 8080. What we will do is to establish a TCP connection with the public SSH server and our local machine. 

> The server will listen to port 8888 and if there is a TCP request on 44.11.22.33 on the same port, the SSH server will take that packet, encapsulate it a legitimate SSH request. It will then send it over through port 22 since it is encrypted and no one on the network can access it.
> 
> We will receive the request on our local device, as the ssh client at 10.0.0.4 will have the ability to know that it is a tunnel. It will make the request to the internal resource on 10.0.0.3 on the behalf of our public SSH server and access the internal resource. Afterwards, it will send it back to our public ssh server.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SSH server will listen to port 8888 for a TCP request on `44.11.22.33` on the same port. The SSH server will take that packet and encapsulate it as a legitimate SSH request. It will then send it over through port 22 since it is encrypted and no one on the network can access it.

We will receive the request on our local device as the SSH client at `10.0.0.4` will have the ability to know that it is a tunnel. It will request the internal resource on `10.0.0.`3 on behalf of our public SSH server and access the internal resource. Afterwards, it will send it back to our public ssh server.
```
